Fusion environment variables (#8460)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/fusion/install-fusion-cli.md

The Fusion install automatically includes adapters outlined in the [Fusion requirements](/docs/fusion/supported-features#requirements). Other adapters will be available at a later date.

## Environment variables

<Constant name="fusion"/> automatically loads environment variables from a `.env` file in your current working directory. This provides a convenient way to manage credentials and configuration without hardcoding them in your `profiles.yml` or exposing them in your shell history.

### Using .env files

1. Create a `.env` file in your current working directory (typically at the root of your dbt project):
   ```env
   DBT_MY_DATABASE=my_database
   DBT_MY_SCHEMA=my_schema
   DBT_SECRET_KEY=my_secret_value
   ```

2. Reference these variables in your `profiles.yml` using the [`env_var` Jinja function](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/env_var):
   ```yaml
   my_profile:
     target: dev
     outputs:
       dev:
         type: snowflake
         account: my_account
         database: "{{ env_var('DBT_MY_DATABASE') }}"
         schema: "{{ env_var('DBT_MY_SCHEMA') }}"
   ```

> 3. Run your dbt commands normally. <Constant name="fusion"/> will automatically load the variables from the `.env` file.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Try running your dbt commands normally, <Constant name="fusion"/> will automatically load the variables from the `.env` file.
```
